[documentation] Updated Mac install Guide (#4319)
aces/Loris: README.Mac.md

### These instructions last tested for LORIS version v20.*
# Install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS
### We recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS
#### macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10. 

This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance running on your Apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files. 
For production, we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS.

# 1. System Requirements

The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and recommended versions to install:

 * macOS (tested on Mojave 10.14.3)

>  * XCode Command Line Tools

Reviewer: This and Xdebug are optional right? Can you separate these programs from the required software, maybe in their own `Optional` header beneath the last bullet? It would also be good to highlight that these are optional in the headers below e.g. step 1.7.

Author: @johnsaigle Xcode Command Line Tools are required to build some of the packages (not really optional). I think most developers will desire using Xdebug for debugging. It might be good to leave the Xdebug snippet where it is in the guide because the flow of installing makes sense to install it after doing the php addition to apache.

Reviewer: That's fine but maybe just tag step 1.7 as optional.

Author: @johnsaigle I added the optional tag.

 * Homebrew

>  * Apache (a.k.a httpd)

Reviewer 2: If it's only for development as described, I don't see why this is using apache. The setup would be simplified and less error prone by just using `php -S` like Travis does.

Author: @driusan can you explain further because I'm unaware of php -S. This is the configuration I've been using to develop with Loris without using a VM. Using apache I thought was necessary with viewing the error logs and making it as close to a production environment at the same time.

Reviewer 2: `php -S` is php's built in development web server. I used `php -S localhost:8000 -t . router.php` from the htdocs directory (logs go to stderr).. it's not as close to production, but it's much easier to setup and it's closer to Travis

Author: @driusan can I leave apache in the guide but add an optional tag. Also adding the step for php -S because there are benefits to both cases.

Author: @driusan I added php -S as an alternative because I think both are valuable.

You should now have your own repository on Github of Loris.

## 1.2 Clone your fork of Loris to your local machine.

Create a directory for development and where you will clone your fork of Loris.

In this example, the finished result will be: ~/Development/GitHub/Loris

**a.** Create the directory for development and where the fork will reside.

Paste the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
mkdir -p ~/Development/GitHub
```

**b.** Clone your fork to ~/Development/GitHub

Paste the following lines in your terminal, and replace <your_username> with your github username before pressing enter.
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/Loris.git
```

## 1.3 Install XCode Command Line Tools
Type the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
xcode-select --install
```

## 1.4 Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
Visit the official website of Homebrew and install by running their installer script in your terminal.

## 1.5 Install Apache (a.k.a httpd)
The following commands will install apache and launch it as a service on startup:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install httpd
brew link httpd
sudo brew services start httpd
```

> #### (useful) terminal commands for Apache

Reviewer 3: would rephrase to: "A few useful terminal commands for Apache"

How to start, stop, and restart apache.
```
sudo apachectl start
sudo apachectl stop
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.5.1 Modify Apache Configuration

Modify the apache configuration file for our development environment.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

> **a.** Find & modify the ServerName to:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `ServerName`

```
ServerName localhost
```

> **b.** Find the lines for `DocumentRoot` and Directory in apache and change them to:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `Directory`

```
DocumentRoot "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/"
<Directory "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/">
```

> **c.** In the same <Directory> block, modify AllowOverride to allow all:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `<Directory>` and `AllowOverride`

```
# AllowOverride controls what directives may be placed in .htaccess files.
# It can be "All", "None", or any combination of the keywords:
#   AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
#
AllowOverride All
```

> **d.** Enable mod_rewrite which is commented out by default:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `mod_rewrite`

```
LoadModule rewrite_module lib/httpd/modules/mod_rewrite.so
```

> **e.** Modify the User & Group (replace your_user again with your macOS user) to:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `User` and `Group`

```
User your_user
Group staff
```

> **f.** Modify the ServerName to:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `ServerName`

Reviewer 4: Adjusting the server name as been done on line 95+. Should keep only one of the 2.

```
ServerName localhost
```

#### Restart apache and it will reload the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.6 Install PHP and pk-config

> Paste these commands into your terminal while hitting enter:

Reviewer 3: replace "while hitting enter" by "and hit enter"

```
brew install php72
brew link php72
brew services start php72
brew install pkg-config
```

### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration (again) but for PHP

Modify the apache configuration file to enable php.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

> **a.** Add the below line to LoadModules (Change php@<version> to the correct version):

Reviewer 3: back tick around `LoadModules` and `php@<version>`

```
LoadModule php7_module /usr/local/opt/php@<version>/lib/httpd/modules/libphp7.so
```

> **b.** Modify <IfModule dir_module> to this:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `<IfModule dir_module>`

```
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.php index.html
</IfModule>
```

> **c.** Add the below lines under </IfModule>:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `</IfModule>`

```
<FilesMatch \.php$>
    SetHandler application/x-httpd-php
</FilesMatch>
```

> #### Restart apache and it will reload the updated settings

Reviewer 3: modify to "Restart apache **with** the updated settings"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Restart Apache will the updated settings
```

```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.7 (Optional) Installing Xdebug

Xdebug allows debugging with breakpoints (such as when using an IDE ex. Intellij).

Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install xdebug
```

### 1.7.1 Configure Xdebug for local development

> **a.** Comment out the line `zend_extensions=“xdebug.so”` from the top of your php.ini (Note: replace your_php_version with the correct php version installed):

Reviewer 3: back tick around `php.ini` and `your_php_version`

```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/php.ini
```

> b. Create the file ext-xdebug.ini with this command:

Reviewer 3: back tick around `ext-xdebug.ini`

```
sudo touch /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/conf.d/ext-xdebug.ini
```

> c. Paste the following into the ext-xdebug.ini file you just created (Note: replace the zend_extension path with the correct one on your machine):

Reviewer 3: back tick around `ext-xdebug.ini` and `zend_extension`

```
[xdebug]
zend_extension="/usr/local/Cellar/php@7.2/7.2.14/pecl/20170718/xdebug.so"
xdebug.remote_enable=on
xdebug.remote_host=localhost
xdebug.remote_port=9000
xdebug.show_error_trace=1
xdebug.remote_autostart=1
xdebug.remote_connect_back=0
xdebug.idekey=phpstorm
```

> #### Restart apache and it will reload with Xdebug configured.

Reviewer 3: modify to "Restart apache **with** Xdebug configured"

```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

> ### 1.7.2 (Optional) Install [Xdebug toggle for OSX](https://github.com/w00fz/xdebug-osx)

Reviewer 3: maybe instead of the term Optional at the beginning of the title, I would replace it by (recommended) at the end of the title like it is done for section 1.8.1

**a.** Install from the GitHub repository.

**b.** Terminal command to view Xdebug state:
```
xdebug
```

**c.** Terminal command to toggle xdebug (On or Off)
```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

## 1.8 Install the database

We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql).

> **a.** Paste the commands into your terminal while hitting enter:

Reviewer 3: replace "while hitting enter" by "and hit enter"

```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

[TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install Loris

> Paste into your terminal while hitting enter:

Reviewer 3: replace "while hitting enter" by "and hit enter"

```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
make dev
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

## 2.2.1 Launch the Loris installer in your browser
Open a browser (we officially support Firefox & Chrome) and navigate to:
```
localhost:8080/installdb.php
```

> Once finished hooray, Loris should accessible at http://localhost:8080 and you can start developing!

Reviewer 3: ... **LORIS** should **be** accessible at ...

## Important Notes: 

> - we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS as macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS as macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10
```

Author: @johnsaigle added 🙂

> - these instructions were last tested on LORIS version v20.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These instructions were last tested on LORIS version v20.*
```

Author: @johnsaigle added 🙂

# How to install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS

This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance running on your Apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files.
For production servers, we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS.

# 1. System Requirements

The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and recommended versions to install:

 * macOS (tested on Mojave 10.14.3)
 * XCode Command Line Tools
 * Homebrew
 * Apache (a.k.a httpd)
 * PHP (tested on v7.2.14)
 * PHP extension: ast-0.1.5
 * pkg-config
 * Composer
 * Node.js (npm)

>  * MySQL (tested with MariaDB)

Reviewer 5: I think it would be important to mention the version of MySQL we are supporting

 * Xdebug (tested on v2.6.1)
 
# 1.1 Pre-Requirements

You should have a GitHub account and git installed on your local development machine.
 
## 1.1 On Github, create your own fork of Loris.

1) Navigate to [github.com/aces/Loris](https://github.com/aces/Loris)
2) Click on the Fork button.

You should now have your own Loris repository on Github.

## 1.2 Clone your fork of Loris to your local machine.

**a.** Create the directory for development and where the fork will reside.

Paste the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
mkdir -p ~/Development/GitHub
```

**b.** Clone your fork to ~/Development/GitHub

Paste the following lines in your terminal, and replace <your_username> with your github username before pressing enter.
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/Loris.git
```

## 1.3 Install XCode Command Line Tools
Type the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
xcode-select --install
```

## 1.4 Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
Visit the official website of Homebrew and install by running their installer script in your terminal.

## 1.5 Install Apache (a.k.a httpd)

> The following commands will install apache and launch it as a service on startup:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following commands will install Apache and launch it as a service on startup:
```

```
php -S localhost:8000 -t . router.php
```
Logs will be sent to stderr.

### 1.5.1 Modify Apache Configuration

Modify the apache configuration file for our development environment.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Find & modify the ServerName to:
```
ServerName localhost
```

**b.** Find the lines for `DocumentRoot` and Directory in apache and change them to:
```
DocumentRoot "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/"
<Directory "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/">
```

**c.** In the same <Directory> block, modify AllowOverride to allow all:
```
# AllowOverride controls what directives may be placed in .htaccess files.
# It can be "All", "None", or any combination of the keywords:
#   AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
#
AllowOverride All
```

**d.** Enable mod_rewrite which is commented out by default:
```
LoadModule rewrite_module lib/httpd/modules/mod_rewrite.so
```

**e.** Modify the User & Group (replace your_user again with your macOS user) to:
```
User your_user
Group staff
```

**f.** Modify the ServerName to:
```
ServerName localhost
```

> #### Restart apache and it will reload the updated settings

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Restart Apache to load the updated settings
```

```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

> ## 1.6 Install PHP and pk-config

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 1.6 Install PHP and pkg-config
```

Paste these commands into your terminal while hitting enter:
```
brew install php72
brew link php72
brew services start php72
brew install pkg-config
```

### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration (again) but for PHP

Modify the apache configuration file to enable php.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Add the below line to LoadModules (Change php@<version> to the correct version):
```
LoadModule php7_module /usr/local/opt/php@<version>/lib/httpd/modules/libphp7.so
```

**b.** Modify <IfModule dir_module> to this:
```
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.php index.html
</IfModule>
```

> **c.** Add the below lines under </IfModule>:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**c.** Add the lines below under `</IfModule>`:
```

```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

## 1.8 Install the database

We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql).

**a.** Paste the commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

[TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install Loris
Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
make dev
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

## 2.2.1 Launch the Loris installer in your browser
Open a browser (we officially support Firefox & Chrome) and navigate to:
```

> localhost:8080/installdb.php

Reviewer 4: instruction to install php specify using port 9000.  Apache use port 80 (443 with SSL) by default. 
Better specify a commons port number or add instruction on how to decide which port number to use

Author: @PapillonMcGill thanks for the review changes! The Apache setup while using brew will default to port 8080. I'm not sure if it's necessary to include more since this is a development setup. I previously had instructions to change it to port 80 (I believe) but @driusan thought it wouldn't be best compared to leaving it the default.

> # LORIS (macOS) Development Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS
```

> # LORIS (macOS) Development Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS
```

```
mkdir -p ~/Development/GitHub
```

**b.** Clone your fork to ~/Development/GitHub

Paste the following lines in your terminal, and replace <your_username> with your github username before pressing enter.
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/Loris.git
```

## 1.3 Install XCode Command Line Tools
Type the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
xcode-select --install
```

## 1.4 Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
Visit the official website of Homebrew and install by running their installer script in your terminal.

## 1.5 Install Apache (a.k.a httpd)
The following commands will install apache and launch it as a service on startup:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install httpd
brew link httpd
sudo brew services start httpd
```

#### (useful) terminal commands for Apache
How to start, stop, and restart apache.
```
sudo apachectl start
sudo apachectl stop
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.5.1 Modify Apache Configuration

Modify the apache configuration file for our development environment.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Find & modify the ServerName to:
```
ServerName localhost
```

> **b.** Find & modify the DocumentRoot and Directory of apache to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**b.** Find the lines for `DocumentRoot` and Directory in apache and change them to:
```

Reviewer: Delete 96-100 and just show the reader what values they need

```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.6 Install PHP and pk-config

Paste these commands into your terminal while hitting enter:
```
brew install php72
brew link php72
brew services start php72
brew install pkg-config
```

### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration (again) but for PHP

Modify the apache configuration file to enable php.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Add the below line to LoadModules (Change php@<version> to the correct version):
```
LoadModule php7_module /usr/local/opt/php@<version>/lib/httpd/modules/libphp7.so
```

**b.** Modify <IfModule dir_module> to this:
```
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.php index.html
</IfModule>
```

**c.** Add the below lines under </IfModule>:
```
<FilesMatch \.php$>
    SetHandler application/x-httpd-php
</FilesMatch>
```

#### Restart apache and it will reload the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.7 Installing Xdebug

Xdebug allows debugging with breakpoints (such as when using an IDE ex. Intellij).

Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install xdebug
```

### 1.7.1 Configure Xdebug for local development

> **a.** Comment out or remove the entry, zend_extensions=“xdebug.so” from the top of your php.ini (Note: replace your_php_version with the correct php version installed):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**a.** Comment out the line `zend_extensions=“xdebug.so”` from the top of your php.ini (Note: replace your_php_version with the correct php version installed):
```

```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/php.ini
```

b. Create the file ext-xdebug.ini with this command:
```
sudo touch /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/conf.d/ext-xdebug.ini
```

c. Paste the following into the ext-xdebug.ini file you just created (Note: replace the zend_extension path with the correct one on your machine):
```
[xdebug]
zend_extension="/usr/local/Cellar/php@7.2/7.2.14/pecl/20170718/xdebug.so"
xdebug.remote_enable=on
xdebug.remote_host=localhost
xdebug.remote_port=9000
xdebug.show_error_trace=1
xdebug.remote_autostart=1
xdebug.remote_connect_back=0
xdebug.idekey=phpstorm
```

#### Restart apache and it will reload with Xdebug configured.
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.7.2 (Optional) Install [Xdebug toggle for OSX](https://github.com/w00fz/xdebug-osx)

> **a.** Install from the github repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**a.** Install from the GitHub repository.
```

**b.** Terminal command to view Xdebug state:
```
xdebug
```

**c.** Terminal command to toggle xdebug (On or Off)
```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

> ## 1.8 Install MySQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1.8 Install the database
```

> We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql).
```

**a.** Paste the commands into your terminal while hitting enter:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

> ### 1.8.1 (recommended) MySQL GUI tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)
```

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

[TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install Loris
Paste into your terminal while hitting enter:
```

> cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris

Reviewer: Replace lines 274-276 with the line `make dev`. It'll do all of these commands.

Reviewer 2: Please keep the note saying Mac is no longer supported as a prominent header. 

Also add a note saying that nothing in this document is an official recommendation for LORIS but is only intended to be helpful.

Author: @driusan The first few lines of the README illustrate this isn't for production and macOS isn't supported. Do you want me to remove those lines and replace because of redundancy?

Reviewer 2: You can keep them both, one's a header and one's prose.

It doesn't matter if it says it's just for development, it should explicitly say nothing in it is an official recommendation.

Author: @driusan okay sounds good.

Author: @driusan I added the new change.

## Important Notes: 
- We recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS as macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10
- These instructions were last tested on LORIS version v20.*

# How to install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS

This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance running on your Apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files.
For production servers, we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS.

# 1. System Requirements

The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and recommended versions to install:

 * macOS (tested on Mojave 10.14.3)
 * XCode Command Line Tools
 * Homebrew
 * Apache (a.k.a httpd)
 * PHP (tested on v7.2.14)
 * PHP extension: ast-0.1.5
 * pkg-config
 * Composer
 * Node.js (npm)
 * MySQL (tested with 10.3.12-MariaDB)
 * Xdebug (tested on v2.6.1)
 
# 1.1 Pre-Requirements

You should have a GitHub account and git installed on your local development machine.
 

> ## 1.1 On Github, create your own fork of Loris.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 1.1 On Github, create your own fork of LORIS.
```

1) Navigate to [github.com/aces/Loris](https://github.com/aces/Loris)
2) Click on the Fork button.

You should now have your own Loris repository on Github.

> ## 1.2 Clone your fork of Loris to your local machine.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 1.2 Clone your fork of LORIS to your local machine.
```

```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Find & modify the `ServerName` to:
```
ServerName localhost
```

**b.** Find the lines for `DocumentRoot` and Directory in Apache and change them to:
```
DocumentRoot "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/"
<Directory "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/">
```

**c.** In the same `<Directory>` block, modify `AllowOverride` to allow all:
```
# AllowOverride controls what directives may be placed in .htaccess files.
# It can be "All", "None", or any combination of the keywords:
#   AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
#
AllowOverride All
```

**d.** Enable `mod_rewrite` which is commented out by default:
```
LoadModule rewrite_module lib/httpd/modules/mod_rewrite.so
```

**e.** Modify the `User` & `Group` (replace your_user again with your macOS user) to:
```
User your_user
Group staff
```

#### Restart Apache to load the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.6 Install PHP and pkg-config

Paste these commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install php72
brew link php72
brew services start php72
brew install pkg-config
```

> ### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration (again) but for PHP

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration for PHP
```

Modify the Apache configuration file to enable php.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

> **a.** Add the below line to `LoadModules` (Change `php@<version>` to the correct version):

Reviewer 3: I would say 'the line below' instead of the 'the below line'. No?

Author: @cmadjar Yah that's better. Fixed.

```
LoadModule php7_module /usr/local/opt/php@<version>/lib/httpd/modules/libphp7.so
```

**b.** Modify `<IfModule dir_module>` to this:
```
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.php index.html
</IfModule>
```

**c.** Add the lines below under `</IfModule>`:
```
<FilesMatch \.php$>
    SetHandler application/x-httpd-php
</FilesMatch>
```

#### Restart Apache will load the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.7 (Optional) Installing Xdebug

Xdebug allows debugging with breakpoints (such as when using an IDE ex. Intellij).

Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install xdebug
```

### 1.7.1 Configure Xdebug for local development

> **a.** Comment out the line `zend_extensions=“xdebug.so”` from the top of your `php.ini` (Note: replace `your_php_version` with the correct php version installed):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**a.** Comment out the line `zend_extensions=“xdebug.so”` from the top of your `php.ini` file (Note: replace `your_php_version` with the correct php version installed):
```

```
[xdebug]
zend_extension="/usr/local/Cellar/php@7.2/7.2.14/pecl/20170718/xdebug.so"
xdebug.remote_enable=on
xdebug.remote_host=localhost
xdebug.remote_port=9000
xdebug.show_error_trace=1
xdebug.remote_autostart=1
xdebug.remote_connect_back=0
xdebug.idekey=phpstorm
```

#### Restart Apache with Xdebug configured.
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.7.2 Install [Xdebug toggle for OSX](https://github.com/w00fz/xdebug-osx) (recommended)

**a.** Install from the GitHub repository.

**b.** Terminal command to view Xdebug state:
```
xdebug
```

**c.** Terminal command to toggle xdebug (On or Off)
```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

## 1.8 Install the database

We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql).

**a.** Paste the commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

> [TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

Reviewer 4: @driusan @maltheism Are these personnal choice or official LORIS recommendation?

Author: @PapillonMcGill they're recommendation from me and I think they should be included.

Reviewer 2: Nothing about this document is an official LORIS recommendation, MacOS isn't supported.

Reviewer 4: @maltheism please remove `(recommended)` on section 1.8.1 and 1.7.2. and replace by (optional).
on section 1.8.1, there should also be a line indicating that this list of tools is not exhaustive and represent only a few on the possible tools.

Reviewer 4: @maltheism This still hasn't been fix

Reviewer 4: @maltheism see 2 comment higher.

> [TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't be advertising other people's paid software in our documentation.

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

> ## 2.2 Install Loris

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 2.2 Install LORIS
```

Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
make dev
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

> ## 2.2.1 Launch the Loris installer in your browser

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 2.2.1 Launch the LORIS installer in your browser
```

Open a browser (we officially support Firefox & Chrome) and navigate to:

```
localhost:8080/installdb.php
```

or

```
localhost:8000/installdb.php
```

> and depending if using php -S or Apache.

Reviewer 4: Order of port number is reverse in regard with tools listed

Author: @PapillonMcGill I'm not quite sure what you mean here.

Author: Also I don't see any more changes from @cmadjar or others.

Reviewer 4: @maltheism 
```
localhost:8080/installdb.php

or

localhost:8000/installdb.php

and depending if using php -S or Apache.
```
8080 is Apache,   
8000 is php -S

either reverse port number line or reverse `php -S` and `Apache`

Reviewer 4: for the unresolved issues, look under the ` hidden conversation`
![unresolved](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34311645/54125699-12df4900-43dc-11e9-86ce-beba5fdeefb8.png)

some issues are not even hidden

Reviewer 4: Marking them as resolved yourself and not resolving is not helping

Author: @PapillonMcGill I did look in the hidden conversations, can you please re-comment on them thanks! Also maybe @cmadjar can comment on what's not resolved.

Author: @PapillonMcGill The ones I marked resolved were when I added the changes I believe. I'll use the thumbs up next time. Sorry!

> and depending if using Apache or php -S.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
depending if using Apache or php -S.
```

Author: Thanks @PapillonMcGill, I moved the depending if using Apache or php -S one line above because I think it makes more sense. Also I did not notice that change and unlikely if you had not commented it out to me. Thanks!

### Mac is no longer supported as of 15.10.
Nothing in this document is an official recommendation for LORIS but is only intended to be helpful!

## Important Notes: 
- We recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS as macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10
- These instructions were last tested on LORIS version v20.*

# How to install a developer instance of LORIS on macOS

This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance running on your Apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files.
For production servers, we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS.

# 1. System Requirements

> The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and recommended versions to install:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and versions to install:
```

```
php -S localhost:8000 -t . router.php
```
Logs will be sent to stderr.

### 1.5.1 Modify Apache Configuration

Modify the Apache configuration file for our development environment.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Find & modify the `ServerName` to:
```
ServerName localhost
```

**b.** Find the lines for `DocumentRoot` and `Directory` in Apache and change them to:
```
DocumentRoot "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/"
<Directory "/Users/<your_user>/Development/GitHub/Loris/htdocs/">
```

**c.** In the same `<Directory>` block, modify `AllowOverride` to allow all:
```
# AllowOverride controls what directives may be placed in .htaccess files.
# It can be "All", "None", or any combination of the keywords:
#   AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
#
AllowOverride All
```

**d.** Enable `mod_rewrite` which is commented out by default:
```
LoadModule rewrite_module lib/httpd/modules/mod_rewrite.so
```

**e.** Modify the `User` & `Group` (replace your_user again with your macOS user) to:
```
User your_user
Group staff
```

#### Restart Apache to load the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.6 Install PHP and pkg-config

> Paste these commands into your terminal and hit enter:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Type these commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```

```
brew install php72
brew link php72
brew services start php72
brew install pkg-config
```

### 1.6.1 Modify Apache Configuration for PHP

Modify the Apache configuration file to enable php.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Add the line below to `LoadModules` (Change `php@<version>` to the correct version):
```
LoadModule php7_module /usr/local/opt/php@<version>/lib/httpd/modules/libphp7.so
```

**b.** Modify `<IfModule dir_module>` to this:
```
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.php index.html
</IfModule>
```

**c.** Add the lines below under `</IfModule>`:
```
<FilesMatch \.php$>
    SetHandler application/x-httpd-php
</FilesMatch>
```

#### Restart Apache will load the updated settings
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

## 1.7 (Optional) Installing Xdebug

Xdebug allows debugging with breakpoints (such as when using an IDE ex. Intellij).

> Paste into your terminal and hit enter:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```

```
pecl install xdebug
```

### 1.7.1 Configure Xdebug for local development

**a.** Comment out the line `zend_extensions=“xdebug.so”` from the top of your `php.ini` file (Note: replace `your_php_version` with the correct php version installed):
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/php.ini
```

b. Create the file `ext-xdebug.ini` with this command:
```
sudo touch /usr/local/etc/php/<your_php_version>/conf.d/ext-xdebug.ini
```

> c. Paste the following into the `ext-xdebug.ini` file you just created (Note: replace the `zend_extension` path with the correct one on your machine):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
c. Type the following into the `ext-xdebug.ini` file you just created (Note: replace the `zend_extension` path with the correct one on your machine):
```

```
[xdebug]
zend_extension="/usr/local/Cellar/php@7.2/7.2.14/pecl/20170718/xdebug.so"
xdebug.remote_enable=on
xdebug.remote_host=localhost
xdebug.remote_port=9000
xdebug.show_error_trace=1
xdebug.remote_autostart=1
xdebug.remote_connect_back=0
xdebug.idekey=phpstorm
```

#### Restart Apache with Xdebug configured.
```
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.7.2 Install [Xdebug toggle for OSX](https://github.com/w00fz/xdebug-osx) (recommended)

**a.** Install from the GitHub repository.

**b.** Terminal command to view Xdebug state:
```
xdebug
```

**c.** Terminal command to toggle xdebug (On or Off)
```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

## 1.8 Install the database

We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql).

> **a.** Paste the commands into your terminal and hit enter:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**a.** Type the commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```

```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

> ### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (Optional)
```

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install LORIS

> Paste into your terminal and hit enter:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```

```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
make dev
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

## 2.2.1 Launch the LORIS installer in your browser

> Open a browser (we officially support Firefox & Chrome) and navigate to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Open a browser (Firefox & Chrome are supported) and navigate to:
```

**a.** Paste the commands into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

### 1.8.1 MySQL GUI tool (recommended)

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

[TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install LORIS
Paste into your terminal and hit enter:
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
make dev
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

## 2.2.1 Launch the LORIS installer in your browser
Open a browser (we officially support Firefox & Chrome) and navigate to:

```
localhost:8080/installdb.php
```

or

```
localhost:8000/installdb.php
```

depending if using Apache or php -S.

> Make sure that `$yourURL` above contains the "http://" or "https://" and `$yourHostname` does not. If your server is only being accessed from localhost, you can skip this step.

Reviewer 4: No more $yourURL or  $yourHostname above.

By default both Apache (port 8080) and php -S (port 8000) use HTTP.  If someone configured either of them to use SSL, then they surely knows to use HTTPS instead. I would just delete that line.

Author: @PapillonMcGill Okay I removed the line.

# LORIS (macOS) Development Guide
### We recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS
#### macOS is no longer supported for "production" as of v15.10. 

> This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance Running on your apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a guide on how to get a LORIS instance running on your Apple computer for development. You're expected to have basic understanding of using a terminal and editing configuration files. 
```

For production, we recommend installing LORIS on Ubuntu or CentOS.

# 1. System Requirements

The following list provides foresight into the proceeding sections and recommended versions to install:

 * macOS (tested on Mojave 10.14.3)
 * XCode Command Line Tools
 * Homebrew
 * Apache (a.k.a httpd)
 * PHP (tested on v7.2.14)
 * PHP extension: ast-0.1.5
 * pkg-config
 * Composer
 * Node.js (npm)
 * MySQL (tested with MariaDB)
 * Xdebug (tested on v2.6.1)
 
# 1.1 Pre-Requirements

You should have a GitHub account and git installed on your local development machine.
 
## 1.1 On Github, create your own fork of Loris.

1) Navigate to [github.com/aces/Loris](https://github.com/aces/Loris)
2) Click the Fork button

You should now have your own repository on Github of Loris.

> ## 1.2 Clone your fork of Loris, to your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1.2 Clone your fork of Loris to your local machine.
```

Create a directory for development and where you will clone your fork of Loris.

In this example, the finished result will be: ~/Development/GitHub/Loris

**a.** Create the directory for development and where the fork will reside.

Paste the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```

> mkdir ~/Development ~/Development/GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir -p ~/Development/GitHub
```
Helpful flag if you don't know about it. :)

```

> **b.** clone your fork to ~/Development/GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**b.** Clone your fork to ~/Development/GitHub
```

Paste the following lines in your terminal, and replace <your_username> with your github username before pressing enter.
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub

> clone https://github.com/<your_username>/Loris.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/Loris.git
```

```

## 1.3 Install XCode Command Line Tools
Type the following in your terminal and hit enter:
```
xcode-select --install
```

## 1.4 Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
Visit the official website of Homebrew and install by running their installer script in your terminal.

## 1.5 Install Apache (a.k.a httpd)
The following commands will install apache and launch it as a service on startup:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install httpd
brew link httpd
sudo brew services start httpd
```

#### (useful) terminal commands for Apache
How to start, stop, and restart apache.
```
sudo apachectl start
sudo apachectl stop
sudo apachectl -k restart
```

### 1.5.1 Modify Apache Configuration

Modify the apache configuration file for our development environment.
```
sudo open -e /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
```

**a.** Find the line:
```
Listen 8080
```
and replace to:
```

> Listen 80

Reviewer: This step isn't necessary and should be removed I think. Privileged ports (< 1024) can only be used by root and so this step requires apache to have root privileges which isn't a good idea.

Author: I think homebrew installs httpd as root. It's running as root on my development machine when I look at services running. I guess if I visited a malicious website some javascript could be used to poll my development server. I guess I have too much faith in Loris. I'll remove this line and add the port 8080. Thanks!

**c.** Terminal command to toggle xdebug (On or Off)
```
xdebug on
xdebug off
```

## 1.8 Install MySQL

We’re installing MariaDB (fork of mysql)

**a.** Paste the commands into your terminal while hitting enter:
```
brew update
brew upgrade
brew install mariadb
brew services start mariadb
```

**b.** Securing MySQL (set password for user “root” and disable outside localhost, remove anonymous users & test dbs):
```
mysql_secure_installation
```

### 1.8.1 (recommended) MySQL GUI tool

[Sequel Pro](https://sequelpro.com/test-builds) (free)

[TablePlus](https://tableplus.io) (free trial or pay for extra features)

## 1.9 Install Composer
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
brew install composer
```

## 2.0 Install PHP extension: ext-ast ^0.1.5 for phan/phan
Type into your terminal and hit enter:
```
pecl install ast-0.1.5;
```

## 2.1 Install Node.js
Navigate in your browser to [NodeJS.org](https://nodejs.org/en/) to download and run the installer.

## 2.2 Install Loris
Paste into your terminal while hitting enter:
```
cd ~/Development/GitHub/Loris
composer install
npm install
npm run compile
cd /tools
./install.sh
```

## 2.2.1 Launch the Loris installer in your browser

> Open a browser such as chrome and navigate to:

Reviewer: Maybe specify here that we officially support only Firefox and Chrome

```

> localhost/installdb.php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
localhost:8080/installdb.php
```
If my suggested comment above is merged

```

> Once finished hooray, Loris should accessible at http://localhost and you can start developing!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once finished hooray, Loris should accessible at http://localhost:8080 and you can start developing!
```

Again make this change only if the other port changes are made.
